Orange ORM with D1 tutorial (#20165)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/d1/tutorials/d1-and-orange-orm/index.mdx

---
updated: 2025-02-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Query D1 using Orange ORM
products:
  - Workers
languages:
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
---

import { WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

## What is Orange ORM?

> [Orange ORM](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm) is an Object Relational Mapper for TypeScript, offering seamless integration with a variety of popular databases. Whether you're building applications in TypeScript or JavaScript, including both CommonJS and ECMAScript, Orange ORM has got you covered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Orange ORM](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm) is an Object Relational Mapper for TypeScript, offering seamless integration with a variety of popular databases. Orange ORM supports both TypeScript and JavaScript, including both CommonJS and ECMAScript.
```

In this tutorial, you will do local and remote development. You will test the Worker locally and deploy your Worker afterwards. Open your terminal, and run both commands:

```sh
# For the local database
npx wrangler d1 migrations apply orange-demo-db --local
```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 migrations apply orange-demo-db --remote
```

Choose `Yes` both times when you are prompted to confirm that the migration should be applied.

Next, create some data that you can query once the Worker is running. This time, you will run the SQL statement without storing it in a file:

```sh
# For the local database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Local)');" --local
```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Remote)');" --remote
```

### 5. Query your database from the Worker

To query your database from the Worker using Orange ORM, you need to:

> 1. Add a `map.ts` to the `src` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `src/map.ts` with the following code:

```ts
import orange from 'orange-orm';

const map = orange.map(x => ({
  user: x.table('user').map(({ column }) => ({
    id: column('id').numeric().primary(),
    email: column('email').string(),
    name: column('name').string(),    
  }))
}));

export default map;
```
```

2. Instantiate the orange-orm with the D1 instance .
3. Send a query using the orange client and return the result.

> Create `src/map.ts` with the following content:
> ```ts
> import orange from 'orange-orm';
> 
> const map = orange.map(x => ({
>   user: x.table('user').map(({ column }) => ({
>     id: column('id').numeric().primary(),
>     email: column('email').string(),
>     name: column('name').string(),    
>   }))
> }));
> 
> export default map;
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Open `src/index.ts` and replace the entire content with the following:

```ts
import map from './map';

export interface Env {
  DB: D1Database;
}
export default {
  async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
    const db = map.d1(env.DB);
    const users = await db.user.getAll();
    return Response.json(users);
  },
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

### 6. Run the Worker locally

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Run the Worker locally by running the following command:

```

```sh
npm run dev
```

> Open your browser at [`http://localhost:8787`](http://localhost:8787/) to check the result of the database query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open your browser at [`http://localhost:8787`](http://localhost:8787/) to check the result of the database query. You should see the following `json` block:
```

```json
[{ "id": 1, "email": "jane@orange-orm.io", "name": "Jane Doe (Local)" }]
```

### 7. Deploy the Worker

To deploy the Worker, run the following command:

```sh
npm run deploy
```

Access your Worker at `https://orange-d1-example.USERNAME.workers.dev`. Your browser should display the following data queried from your remote D1 database:

```json
[{ "id": 1, "email": "jane@orange-orm.io", "name": "Jane Doe (Remote)" }]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Summary

```

---
updated: 2025-02-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Query D1 using Orange ORM
products:
  - Workers
languages:
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
---

import { WranglerConfig, PackageManagers, Render, FileTree } from "~/components";

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::note
This is a community-created tutorial.
:::

```

---
updated: 2025-02-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Query D1 using Orange ORM
products:
  - Workers
languages:
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
---

import { WranglerConfig, PackageManagers, Render, FileTree } from "~/components";

## What is Orange ORM?

Orange ORM is an Object Relational Mapper for TypeScript, offering seamless integration with a variety of popular databases. Orange ORM supports both TypeScript and JavaScript, including both CommonJS and ECMAScript.

Refer to the full [Orange ORM documentation](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm) for more information.

## Query D1 from a Cloudflare Worker using Orange ORM

This example shows you how to set up and deploy a Cloudflare Worker that is accessing a D1 database from scratch.

### Prerequisites

- [`Node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [`npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started) installed on your machine.
- A [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com).

### 1. Create a Cloudflare Worker

> Open your terminal, and run the following command to create a Cloudflare Worker using Cloudflare's [`hello-world`](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/4fdd8987772d914cf50725e9fa8cb91a82a6870d/packages/create-cloudflare/templates/hello-world) template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your terminal, and run the following command to create a Cloudflare Worker:
```

1. Create a Worker named `orange-d1-example` by running:

    <PackageManagers type="create" pkg="cloudflare@latest" args={"orange-d1-example"} />

    <Render
    	file="c3-post-run-steps"
    	product="workers"
    	params={{
    	category: "hello-world",
    	type: "Hello World Worker",
    	lang: "TypeScript",
    	}}
    />

2.  Change into your new project directory to start developing:

>     ```sh frame="none"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
```

```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 migrations apply orange-demo-db --remote
```

Choose `Yes` both times when you are prompted to confirm that the migration should be applied.

5. Next, create some data that you can query once the Worker is running. This time, you will run the SQL statement without storing it in a file. Run the following commands:

```sh
# For the local database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Local)');" --local
```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Remote)');" --remote
```

### 5. Query your database from the Worker

To query your database from the Worker using Orange ORM, you need to:

1. Create a `src/map.ts` file with the following code:

```ts
import orange from 'orange-orm';

const map = orange.map(x => ({
  user: x.table('user').map(({ column }) => ({
    id: column('id').numeric().primary(),
    email: column('email').string(),
    name: column('name').string(),    
  }))
}));

export default map;
```

> 2. Instantiate the orange-orm with the D1 instance. Open `src/index.ts` and replace the entire content with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Instantiate the `orange-orm` with the D1 instance. Open `src/index.ts` and replace the entire content with the following:
```

> 2. Instantiate the orange-orm with the D1 instance. Open `src/index.ts` and replace the entire content with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Instantiate the orange-orm with the D1 instance, then send a query using the orange client and return the result. To do this, open `src/index.ts` and replace the entire content with the following:
```

```ts
import map from './map';

export interface Env {
  DB: D1Database;
}
export default {
  async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
    const db = map.d1(env.DB);
    const users = await db.user.getAll();
    return Response.json(users);
  },
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

> 3. Send a query using the orange client and return the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
updated: 2025-02-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial

> title: Query D1 using Orange ORM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Query D1 using Orange ORM
description: Use D1 with Orange ORM
```

1. Create a Worker named `d1-http` by running:

    <PackageManagers type="create" pkg="cloudflare@latest" args={"orange-d1-example"} />

    <Render
    	file="c3-post-run-steps"
    	product="workers"
    	params={{
    	category: "hello-world",
    	type: "Hello World Worker",
    	lang: "TypeScript",
    	}}
    />

2.  Change into your new project directory to start developing:

    ```sh frame="none"
    cd orange-d1-example
    ```

    ```sh frame="none"
    cd orange-d1-example
    ```

### 2. Install Orange ORM

:::note

D1 is supported in Orange ORM as of [v4.5.0](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm/releases/tag/v4.5.0).

:::

```sh
cd orange-d1-example
npm install orange-orm
You can create a D1 database via the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com), or via `wrangler`. This tutorial uses the `wrangler` CLI.

### 3. Create your D1 database

You can create a D1 database via the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com), or via `wrangler`. This tutorial uses the `wrangler` CLI.

Open your terminal and run the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler d1 create orange-demo-db
```

You should receive the following output on your terminal:

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh
````

```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 migrations apply orange-demo-db --remote
```

Choose `Yes` both times when you are prompted to confirm that the migration should be applied.

5. Next, create some data that you can query once the Worker is running. This time, you will run the SQL statement without storing it in a file. Run the following commands:

```sh
# For the local database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Local)');" --local
```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Remote)');" --remote
```

### 5. Query your database from the Worker

To query your database from the Worker using Orange ORM, you need to:

1. Create a `src/map.ts` with the following code:

```ts
import orange from 'orange-orm';

const map = orange.map(x => ({
  user: x.table('user').map(({ column }) => ({
    id: column('id').numeric().primary(),
    email: column('email').string(),
    name: column('name').string(),    
  }))
}));

> export default map;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default map;
```

```

> export default map;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default map;
   ```
```

2. Instantiate the orange-orm with the D1 instance. Open `src/index.ts` and replace the entire content with the following:

```ts
import map from './map';

export interface Env {
  DB: D1Database;
}
export default {
  async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
    const db = map.d1(env.DB);
    const users = await db.user.getAll();
    return Response.json(users);
  },
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
3. Send a query using the orange client and return the result.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

---
updated: 2025-02-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Query D1 using Orange ORM
products:
  - Workers
languages:
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
---

import { WranglerConfig, PackageManagers, Render, FileTree } from "~/components";

## What is Orange ORM?

Orange ORM is an Object Relational Mapper for TypeScript, offering seamless integration with a variety of popular databases. Orange ORM supports both TypeScript and JavaScript, including both CommonJS and ECMAScript.

Refer to the full [Orange ORM documentation](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm) for more information.

## Query D1 from a Cloudflare Worker using Orange ORM

This example shows you how to set up and deploy a Cloudflare Worker that is accessing a D1 database from scratch.

### Prerequisites

- [`Node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [`npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started) installed on your machine.
- A [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com).

### 1. Create a Cloudflare Worker

> Open your terminal, and run the following command to create a Cloudflare Worker using Cloudflare's [`hello-world`](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/4fdd8987772d914cf50725e9fa8cb91a82a6870d/packages/create-cloudflare/templates/hello-world) template:

Reviewer 2: This URL links to a specific commit that is 11 months old. 
Can we link to a recent commit or just the main branch, assuming we won't be dropping the hello-world template anytime soon?

Reviewer: I think we can probably just delete the reference to the `hello-world` template in the first place.

> 1. Create a Worker named `d1-http` by running:

Author: Are you sure about this ?
"..a Worker named '**d1-http**' " ?
Shouldn't the worker be named '**orange-d1-example**' ?

Reviewer: Ah good catch - I'd changed it on line 38, but missed it here!

> 1. Create a Worker named `d1-http` by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Worker named `orange-d1-example` by running:
```

    <PackageManagers type="create" pkg="cloudflare@latest" args={"orange-d1-example"} />

    <Render
    	file="c3-post-run-steps"
    	product="workers"
    	params={{
    	category: "hello-world",
    	type: "Hello World Worker",
    	lang: "TypeScript",
    	}}
    />

2.  Change into your new project directory to start developing:

>     ```sh frame="none"

Reviewer 2: Not sure why we're dropping the frame here.

    cd orange-d1-example
    ```

>     ```sh frame="none"
>     cd orange-d1-example
>     ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Removing duplicate lines.

### 2. Install Orange ORM

:::note

D1 is supported in Orange ORM as of [v4.5.0](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm/releases/tag/v4.5.0).

:::

```sh

> cd orange-d1-example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
The `cd` command was already executed in step 1.

npm install orange-orm
```

> You can create a D1 database via the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com), or via `wrangler`. This tutorial uses the `wrangler` CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This content is repeated (it appears again in step 3, which is the step about creating a D1 database).

### 3. Create your D1 database

You can create a D1 database via the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com), or via `wrangler`. This tutorial uses the `wrangler` CLI.

Open your terminal and run the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler d1 create orange-demo-db
```

You should receive the following output on your terminal:

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```txt
```
This is regular output, not a shell command.

✅ Successfully created DB 'orange-demo-db' in region EEUR
Created your database using D1's new storage backend. The new storage backend is not yet recommended for production workloads, but backs up your data via
point-in-time restore.

{
  "d1_databases": [
    {
      "binding": "DB",
      "database_name": "orange-demo-db",
      "database_id": "<YOUR_D1_DATABASE_ID>" 
    }
  ]
}
```

You now have a D1 database in your Cloudflare account with a binding to your Cloudflare Worker.

> Copy the `json` snippet from the command output and paste it into your `wrangler.jsonc` file. Your `wrangler.jsonc` file should look similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copy the JSON snippet from the command output and paste it into your `wrangler.jsonc` file. Your `wrangler.jsonc` file should look similar to the following:
```

<WranglerConfig>

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "node_modules/wrangler/config-schema.json",
  "name": "orange-d1-example",
  "main": "src/index.ts",
  "compatibility_date": "2025-02-14",
  "observability": {
    "enabled": true
  },
  "d1_databases": [
    {
      "binding": "DB",
      "database_name": "orange-demo-db",
      "database_id": "<YOUR_D1_DATABASE_ID>" 
    }
  ]
}
```

</WranglerConfig>

> `<YOUR_D1_DATABASE_ID>` should be replaced with the database ID of your D1 instance. If you were not able to fetch this ID from the terminal output, you can also find it in the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), or by running `npx wrangler d1 info orange-demo-db` in your terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace `<YOUR_D1_DATABASE_ID>` with the database ID of your D1 instance. If you were not able to fetch this ID from the terminal output, you can also find it in the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), or by running `npx wrangler d1 info orange-demo-db` in your terminal.
```

Next, create a database table in the database to send queries to D1 using Orange ORM.

### 4. Create a table in the database

D1 has a [migration system](/d1/reference/migrations), and in the following steps, you will use D1's migration system to create and run a migration against your database.

> 1. First, create a new migration using `wrangler`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a new migration using `wrangler`:
```

```sh
npx wrangler d1 migrations create orange-demo-db create_user_table
```

2. When asked to create a new folder called `migrations`, enter `Y`.

The command has now created a new directory called `migrations` and an empty file called `0001_create_user_table.sql` inside of it:

<FileTree>
- migrations
  - **0001_create_user_table.sql**
</FileTree>

3. Edit the file so it looks like this:

```sql
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE "User" (
    "id" INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    "email" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "name" TEXT
);

-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "User_email_key" ON "User"("email");
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra empty line.

You now need to use the `wrangler d1 migrations apply` command to send this SQL statement to D1. This command accepts two flags:

- `--local`: Executes the statement against a local version of D1. This local version of D1 is a SQLite database file that will be located in the `.wrangler/state` directory of your project. Use this approach when you want to develop and test your Worker on your local machine. Refer to [Local development](/d1/best-practices/local-development/) to learn more.
- `--remote`: Executes the statement against your remote version of D1. This version is used by your deployed Cloudflare Workers. Refer to [Remote development](/d1/best-practices/remote-development/) to learn more.

> In this tutorial, you will first test the Worker locally, then deploy your Worker afterwards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will first test the Worker locally, then deploy your Worker.
```
Nit: We already say "then", so I'd remove "afterwards".

4. Open your terminal, and run both commands:

```sh
# For the local database
npx wrangler d1 migrations apply orange-demo-db --local
```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 migrations apply orange-demo-db --remote
```

Choose `Yes` both times when you are prompted to confirm that the migration should be applied.

5. Next, create some data that you can query once the Worker is running. This time, you will run the SQL statement without storing it in a file. Run the following commands:

```sh
# For the local database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Local)');" --local
```

```sh
# For the remote database
npx wrangler d1 execute orange-demo-db --command "INSERT INTO  \"User\" (\"email\", \"name\") VALUES ('jane@orange-orm.io', 'Jane Doe (Remote)');" --remote
```

### 5. Query your database from the Worker

To query your database from the Worker using Orange ORM, you need to:

> 1. Create a `src/map.ts` with the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a `src/map.ts` file with the following code:
```

---
updated: 2025-02-21
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Query D1 using Orange ORM
products:
  - Workers
languages:
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
---

import { WranglerConfig, PackageManagers, Render, FileTree } from "~/components";

## What is Orange ORM?

[Orange ORM](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm) is an Object Relational Mapper for TypeScript, offering seamless integration with a variety of popular databases. Orange ORM supports both TypeScript and JavaScript, including both CommonJS and ECMAScript.

> - **Rich Querying Model**: Orange provides a powerful and intuitive querying model, making it easy to retrieve, filter, and manipulate data from your databases.
> - **Active Record**: With a concise and expressive syntax, Orange enables you to interact with your database using the [*Active Record Pattern*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_record_pattern).
> - **No Code Generation Required**: Enjoy full IntelliSense, even in table mappings, without the need for cumbersome code generation.
> - **TypeScript and JavaScript Support**: Orange fully supports both TypeScript and JavaScript, allowing you to leverage the benefits of static typing and modern ECMAScript features.
> - **Works in the Browser**: You can securely use Orange in the browser by utilizing the Express.js plugin, which serves to safeguard sensitive database credentials from exposure at the client level and protect against SQL injection. This method mirrors a traditional REST API, augmented with advanced TypeScript tooling for enhanced functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the full [Orange ORM documentation](https://github.com/alfateam/orange-orm) for more information.
```
